Microsoft Certified: Azure Virtual Desktop Specialty!
------------------

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/azure-virtual-desktop-specialty/

https://query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RE4MFST


Microsoft Learn:
----------------

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/m365-wvd/

More helpful information directly from Microsoft, divided into the functional groups (Skills measured) coming soon!
-------------------

**Plan an Azure Virtual Desktop architecture:**

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/rds-plan-and-design

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/virtual-machine-recs

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/network-guidance

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rdp-bandwidth

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/network-connectivity

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rdp-quality-of-service-qos

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/overview#supported-virtual-machine-os-images

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/faq

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/windows-10-multisession-faq

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/multi-forest

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/multi-forest-azure-managed

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/environment-setup

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-host-pools-azure-marketplace?tabs=azure-portal

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/data-locations

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/virtual-machine-recs

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/virtual-desktop/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/store-fslogix-profile

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-windows-7-10

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-web

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-android

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-macos

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-ios

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-microsoft-store

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/linux-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop-fslogix

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/fslogix-containers-azure-files

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/network-connectivity

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/whatis-azure-ad-connect

**Implement an Azure Virtual Desktop infrastructure:**

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/design

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/fundamentals/network-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/network-connectivity

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/firewall/protect-azure-virtual-desktop

https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-virtual-desktop/learn-here-how-to-manage-your-windows-virtual-desktop-host-pools/m-p/783620

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-azure-monitor

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-set-up-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/azure-monitor

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/store-fslogix-profile

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/fslogix-containers-azure-files

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/managed-disks-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/ephemeral-os-disks

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-customize-master-image

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/files/storage-how-to-create-file-share

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-host-pools-azure-marketplace

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/powershell-module

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-host-pools-powershell

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/customize-rdp-properties

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/configure-host-pool-load-balancing

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/configure-host-pool-personal-desktop-assignment-type

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/apply-windows-license

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/configure-automatic-updates

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-validation-host-pool

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/security-guide

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-customize-master-image

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/language-packs

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-host-pools-powershell

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/shared-image-galleries

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/capture-image-portal

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-set-up-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-vm-configuration

**Manage access and security:**

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rbac

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/delegated-access-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/fundamentals/azure-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-mfa

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/security-guide

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/get-started

https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/blog/protecting-windows-virtual-desktop-environments-with-azure-security-center/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/deployment-vdi-microsoft-defender-antivirus

**Manage user environments and apps:**

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/install-ht

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/configure-profile-container-tutorial

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/configure-cloud-cache-tutorial

https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/windows-it-pro-blog/accelerate-your-rds-and-vdi-migration-to-windows-virtual-desktop/ba-p/1079005

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/universal-print/fundamentals/universal-print-getting-started

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/configure-host-pool-personal-desktop-assignment-type

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/customize-rdp-properties

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/fslogix-trouble-shooting-ht

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-set-up-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/app-attach-azure-portal

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/implement-application-masking-tutorial

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/manage-app-groups

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/onedrive/sync-vdi-support

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/teams-for-vdi

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/security-guide

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/manage-app-groups

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-set-up-overview

**Monitor and maintain an Azure Virtual Desktop infrastructure:** 

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/disaster-recovery

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/faq#how-does-windows-virtual-desktop-handle-backups

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop-fslogix

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/fslogix-containers-azure-files

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/backup/backup-afs

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-scaling-script

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/azure-monitor

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/performance-tuning/role/remote-desktop/session-hosts

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/rds-vdi-recommendations-2004

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/windows-10-multisession-faq

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-scaling-script

Azure Virtual Desktop Architecture:
----------------------------------

Azure Virtual Desktop assessment  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/scenarios/wvd/migrate-assess  

Azure Virtual Desktop for the enterprise  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/windows-virtual-desktop

Azure Virtual Desktop components   
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/3-azure-virtual-desktop-components

Personal and pooled desktops  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/4-personal-pooled-desktops

Service updates for Azure Virtual Desktop desktops  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/5-service-updates-for-azure-virtual-desktops

Azure limitations for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/6-azure-limitations-for-azure-virtual-desktop

Virtual machine sizing guidelines  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/virtual-machine-recs

Azure Virtual Desktop pricing  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/8-azure-virtual-desktop-pricing

Assess network capacity and speed requirements for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rdp-bandwidth

Network guidelines  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/network-guidance  

Azure Virtual Desktop Experience Estimator  
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/virtual-desktop/assessment/  

Recommend an operating system for an Azure Virtual Desktop implementation  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/design-azure-virtual-desktop-architecture/4-recommend-operate-system-azure-virtual-desktop-implementation

Host pool load-balancing algorithms  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/host-pool-load-balancing

Configure a location for the Azure Virtual Desktop metadata  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/data-locations

Use Azure Monitor for Azure Virtual Desktop to monitor your deployment  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/azure-monitor

Recommend an appropriate storage solution  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/store-fslogix-profile

Update the password of your storage account identity in AD DS  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/files/storage-files-identity-ad-ds-update-password

Overview - on-premises Active Directory Domain Services authentication over SMB for Azure file shares  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/files/storage-files-identity-auth-active-directory-enable

Azure AD join for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/azure-virtual-desktop-azure-active-directory-join

Azure Virtual Desktop RDP Shortpath for managed networks  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/shortpath

Multiregion Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/wvd/azure-virtual-desktop-multi-region-bcdr

FSLogix:
-------
Download FSLogix  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/install-ht

Configure Profile Container to redirect User Profiles  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/configure-profile-container-tutorial

Configure Office Container to redirect Microsoft Office user data  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/configure-office-container-tutorial

Create a profile container with Azure Files and Azure AD DS  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/create-profile-container-adds

Teams Cache Redirection  
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-virtual-desktop/wvd-fslogix-reduce-profile-container-size-exclude-teams-cache/m-p/1503683

Custom Image:
------------

Installing Office  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/install-office-on-wvd-master-image#install-office-in-shared-computer-activation-mode

Installing Teams  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/teams-on-avd  
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-virtual-desktop/wvd-fslogix-reduce-profile-container-size-exclude-teams-cache/td-p/1503683

Installing OneDrive  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/install-office-on-wvd-master-image#install-onedrive-in-per-machine-mode

Installing a Language Pack  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/language-packs

Store and share images in an Azure Compute Gallery  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/shared-image-galleries

Connect to Azure Virtual Desktop:
--------------------------------

WebURL  
https://client.wvd.microsoft.com/arm/webclient/index.html  

https://rdweb.wvd.microsoft.com/api/arm/feeddiscovery  

Monitoring:
----------

Use Azure Monitor for Azure Virtual Desktop to monitor your deployment  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/azure-monitor

Use Log Analytics for the diagnostics feature  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/diagnostics-log-analytics

Log Analytics Workspace (KQL)  
https://github.com/tomwechsler/Azure_Virtual_Desktop/blob/main/WVD_Log_Analytics_KQL.ps1

Security:
--------

Security best practices  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/security-guide

Built-in Azure RBAC roles for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rbac

Azure security baseline for Azure Virtual Desktop  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security/benchmark/azure/baselines/virtual-desktop-security-baseline

Azure Virtual Desktop Handbook: Security Fundamentals  
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/azure-virtual-desktop-handbook-security-fundamentals/

Protecting Azure Virtual Desktop environments with Azure Security Center  
https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/blog/protecting-windows-virtual-desktop-environments-with-azure-security-center/

Here's another list of helpful links:
----------------

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/rbac

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-quickstart-set-up-account-create-volumes?tabs=azure-portal

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-create-volumes-smb

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/create-active-directory-connections

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/set-up-mfa

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/backup/backup-afs

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/host-pool-load-balancing

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/fundamentals/antimalware

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/store-fslogix-profile

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/connect-web

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/fslogix-office-app-rule-editor

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/customize-feed-for-virtual-desktop-users

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-client

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-domain-services/tutorial-create-instance

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fslogix/configure-profile-container-tutorial#set-up-include-and-exclude-user-groups

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/teams-on-avd

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/troubleshoot-vm-configuration

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/prepare-for-upload-vhd-image#determine-when-to-use-sysprep

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/clients/windowsdesktop

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/backup/backup-azure-vms-introduction

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/migrate/azure-best-practices/contoso-migration-rds-to-wvd

https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/pricing/details/virtual-desktop/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/create-automation-tasks-azure-resources

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-solution-vm-management

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/prepare-for-upload-vhd-image

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-manage-snapshots

https://www.christiaanbrinkhoff.com/2020/03/22/windows-virtual-desktop-technical-walkthrough-including-other-unknown-secrets-you-did-not-know-about-the-new-microsoft-managed-azure-service/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/scenarios/wvd/eslz-identity-and-access-management

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/language-packs

https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/services/virtual-desktop/assessment/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/scenarios/wvd/eslz-business-continuity-and-disaster-recovery

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/disaster-recovery


**YouTube Channel (Tom Wechsler)**  
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTNeHOi-dFeMLPkrYA9VbHw